CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Skosmos

Thank you for taking the time to contribute! :+1:

Here you'll find some general guidelines for contributing to the development of Skosmos. If you'd like to discuss Skosmos with other users and developers visit the [Skosmos user forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/skosmos-users). The list is used for general discussion about Skosmos, asking for help, and announcements for new versions. All messages are public and anyone is welcome to join!

## Reporting a bug

First ensure the bug has not been already reported by searching the [issues](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/issues/) here on GitHub. If it has been already reported you can help by providing additional information as a comment to the existing issue.

If you've found a bug that hasn't been reported yet you can help us by [creating a new issue](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/issues/new). Fill out the information requested in the issue template. Include a clear title and description of the bug you've found with as much information as possible. Also include a link to a page where the error can be seen. If adding a url is not possible describe the actions needed to reproduce the error.

## Providing translations

Skosmos core languages (English, Finnish and Swedish) are maintained by the National Library of Finland. In addition to these three languages volunteers have provided translations for other languages on the transifex platform. We are happy to receive both translations for new languages as well as **updates to the existing translations**. Skosmos has been translated to more than 10 languages by members of the community.

If you'd like to provide translation help the instructions at the [translation wiki page](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/wiki/Translation) will tell you how to do it.

## Contributing code

### Development cycles and use of milestones
Skosmos development is done in sprints, usually lasting two weeks, followed by a release. The planned work (issues) for the next/current sprint is chosen from among the open issues. Issues or pull requests may have a milestone indicating the version number of the planned release eg. **2.16**. The issues marked in the milestone **Next tasks** are issues we haven't yet scheduled for a specific release but we'd like resolve in the near future. Issues marked **Blue sky** are issues we've decided to postpone for now. The milestones and open issues are evaluated after each release.

### Making a commit

If you see an issue that you'd like to fix feel free to do so. If possible let us know you're working on an issue by leaving a comment on it so we'll be able to avoid doing the same work twice. This is especially useful if the issue has been marked for a release (in a milestone with a version number eg. "1.8") since it's more likely someone might be already working on it.

### Code style

Skosmos PHP code should follow [PSR-12](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-12/) style. To help achieve this, [PHP-CS-Fixer](https://github.com/PHP-CS-Fixer/PHP-CS-Fixer), a tool to automatically fix and verify PHP code style issues, is included as a development dependency that is installed via Composer.  There is also a code style check in the GitHub Actions CI pipeline that verifies the code style compliance.

We expect good coding practices also for front-end code. Among many others, we use [Standard JS](https://standardjs.com/) to validate the JavaScript code. Standard JS is included as a development dependency that is installed by using ```npm install```.

You should set up a pre-commit hook to automate style checking with PHP-CS-Fixer for every git commit by adding the following script to the file `.git/hooks/pre-commit`, which should have execute permission set. Pre-commit hook for Standard JS validation should also be added (more details about Standard JS in the text below).

```bash
#!/bin/bash

set -e
vendor/bin/php-cs-fixer fix --diff --dry-run src

JS_FILES_TO_BE_CHECKED="/relative_path_to_the_folder_containing_js-files/*.js 
npx standard $JS_FILES_TO_BE_CHECKED

```

If the hook complains about the PHP code styles and intercepts the commit, you can run PHP-CS-Fixer manually to reformat the PHP code using this command:

    vendor/bin/php-cs-fixer fix src

Fixing the errors reported by Standard JS, we suggest that style errors be fixed using the --fix flag. For example:
```standard --fix *.js``` (automatically makes changes to files).

Standard JS is part of the Skosmos installation package, so you do not need to do any additional installation after ```npm install```.

If PHP-CS-Fixer or Standard JS work unexpectedly, please let us know in the Skosmos [Users group](https://groups.google.com/g/skosmos-users).

### Unit tests

If you've added new functionality or you've found out that the existing tests are lacking, we'd be happy if you could provide additional PHPUnit tests to cover it. Also see that your code passes all the existing tests by running PHPUnit. For more information, see the wiki page on [unit and integration tests](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/wiki/Unit-and-integration-tests).

### Making a commit and a pull request

Please add a concise commit message for your contributions. In addition to describing the changes made include references to related issue numbers eg. "Description of the changes in the commit, related to #22". Then the GitHub issue tracker automatically links the related commits to the issue page. This makes debugging persistent bugs easier.

When you're happy with your finished contribution please send us a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/).

Commit message:

Added mention of npx command and additional mention of folders

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Skosmos

Thank you for taking the time to contribute! :+1:

Here you'll find some general guidelines for contributing to the development of Skosmos. If you'd like to discuss Skosmos with other users and developers visit the [Skosmos user forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/skosmos-users). The list is used for general discussion about Skosmos, asking for help, and announcements for new versions. All messages are public and anyone is welcome to join!

## Reporting a bug

First ensure the bug has not been already reported by searching the [issues](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/issues/) here on GitHub. If it has been already reported you can help by providing additional information as a comment to the existing issue.

If you've found a bug that hasn't been reported yet you can help us by [creating a new issue](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/issues/new). Fill out the information requested in the issue template. Include a clear title and description of the bug you've found with as much information as possible. Also include a link to a page where the error can be seen. If adding a url is not possible describe the actions needed to reproduce the error.

## Providing translations

Skosmos core languages (English, Finnish and Swedish) are maintained by the National Library of Finland. In addition to these three languages volunteers have provided translations for other languages on the transifex platform. We are happy to receive both translations for new languages as well as **updates to the existing translations**. Skosmos has been translated to more than 10 languages by members of the community.

If you'd like to provide translation help the instructions at the [translation wiki page](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/wiki/Translation) will tell you how to do it.

## Contributing code

### Development cycles and use of milestones
Skosmos development is done in sprints, usually lasting two weeks, followed by a release. The planned work (issues) for the next/current sprint is chosen from among the open issues. Issues or pull requests may have a milestone indicating the version number of the planned release eg. **2.16**. The issues marked in the milestone **Next tasks** are issues we haven't yet scheduled for a specific release but we'd like resolve in the near future. Issues marked **Blue sky** are issues we've decided to postpone for now. The milestones and open issues are evaluated after each release.

### Making a commit

If you see an issue that you'd like to fix feel free to do so. If possible let us know you're working on an issue by leaving a comment on it so we'll be able to avoid doing the same work twice. This is especially useful if the issue has been marked for a release (in a milestone with a version number eg. "1.8") since it's more likely someone might be already working on it.

### Code style

Skosmos PHP code should follow [PSR-12](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-12/) style. To help achieve this, [PHP-CS-Fixer](https://github.com/PHP-CS-Fixer/PHP-CS-Fixer), a tool to automatically fix and verify PHP code style issues, is included as a development dependency that is installed via Composer.  There is also a code style check in the GitHub Actions CI pipeline that verifies the code style compliance.

We expect good coding practices also for front-end code. Among many others, we use [Standard JS](https://standardjs.com/) to validate the JavaScript code. Standard JS is included as a development dependency that is installed by using ```npm install```.

You should set up a pre-commit hook to automate style checking with PHP-CS-Fixer for every git commit by adding the following script to the file `.git/hooks/pre-commit`, which should have execute permission set. Pre-commit hook for Standard JS validation should also be added (more details about Standard JS in the text below).

```bash
#!/bin/bash

set -e
vendor/bin/php-cs-fixer fix --diff --dry-run src

JS_FILES_TO_BE_CHECKED="/path_to_the_folder_containing_js-files/*.js 
npx standard $JS_FILES_TO_BE_CHECKED

```

If the hook complains about the PHP code styles and intercepts the commit, you can run PHP-CS-Fixer manually to reformat the PHP code using this command:

    vendor/bin/php-cs-fixer fix src

Fixing the errors reported by Standard JS, we suggest that style errors be fixed using the --fix flag. For example:
```npx standard --fix path_to_the_folder_containing_js-files/*.js```. It automatically makes changes to files and it is possible to refer to several different folders.

Standard JS is part of the Skosmos installation package, so you do not need to do any additional installation after ```npm install```.

If PHP-CS-Fixer or Standard JS work unexpectedly, please let us know in the Skosmos [Users group](https://groups.google.com/g/skosmos-users).

### Unit tests

If you've added new functionality or you've found out that the existing tests are lacking, we'd be happy if you could provide additional PHPUnit tests to cover it. Also see that your code passes all the existing tests by running PHPUnit. For more information, see the wiki page on [unit and integration tests](https://github.com/NatLibFi/Skosmos/wiki/Unit-and-integration-tests).

### Making a commit and a pull request

Please add a concise commit message for your contributions. In addition to describing the changes made include references to related issue numbers eg. "Description of the changes in the commit, related to #22". Then the GitHub issue tracker automatically links the related commits to the issue page. This makes debugging persistent bugs easier.

When you're happy with your finished contribution please send us a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/).
