SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

Following Skosmos versions are currently being supported with security updates. The "current development branch" means the master branch of the repository, whereas the "maintenance branch" corresponds with the latest release of Skosmos.

| Version                     | Supported          |
| --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Current development branch  |  ✔️                 |
| Current maintenance branch  |  ✔️                 |
| Older versions              | :x:                |

## Reporting a Vulnerability

Thank you for improving the security of Skosmos. We value your findings, and we'd be grateful if you report any concerns or vulnerabilities directly to `finto-posti@helsinki.fi`.

If the security vulnerability is in a third-party software library, please report it also to the team maintaining it.

Each security concern will be assigned to a handler from our team, who will contact you if there's a need for additional information. We confirm the problem and keep you informed of the fix.

Commit message:

Clarified the text for the version chart

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

Following Skosmos versions are currently being supported with security updates by the Skosmos development team at the National Library of Finland. The "current development branch" means the master branch of the repository, whereas the "maintenance branch" is a branch called `vX.X-maintenance`, where the version number `X.X` corresponds to the latest release of Skosmos.

| Version                     | Supported          |
| --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Current development branch  |  ✔️                 |
| Current maintenance branch  |  ✔️                 |
| Older versions              | :x:                |

## Reporting a Vulnerability

Thank you for improving the security of Skosmos. We value your findings, and we'd be grateful if you report any concerns or vulnerabilities directly to `finto-posti@helsinki.fi`.

If the security vulnerability is in a third-party software library, please report it also to the team maintaining it.

Each security concern will be assigned to a handler from our team, who will contact you if there's a need for additional information. We confirm the problem and keep you informed of the fix.
